---
title: How I met him and other stories
date: 2024-02-24
description: Roopini and I are a world of our own, I take a moment to reflect on what bought us together and what our values are:e
authors: ["suriya"]
tags:
  - lifestory
---
 

Suriya and I have known each other for more than 10 years and been in love for 8 years (and still counting). Looking back in time it seems like only yesterday we were in school, exchanging books. It has been a great journey, infact the best journey. 

Suriya and I were classmates. We were in the 11th standard and it was the time where I was actively reading Dan Brown's Robert Langdon series. The only book that was left was the lost symbol. I got to know through a friend that Suriya had this book. I was almost in shock and also kind of excited knowing that he reads! Once I finished the lost symbol, I asked him what other books he had and he replied saying "Everything" and he did have almost everything. Almost all the books had a stamp from "Renga lending library" this was a famous lending library in Nanganallur and Suriya told me, he owned these books. So, I confirmed that his father was the owner of the lending library (Later I found out he was not) But, it was a funny story to me. 
 

Back in school, I knew this guy was something different and I always wanted to pick his brain. But, he was a shy kid back then who would barely speak anything. He was socially awkward and did not use whatsapp cuz, he had his own theories about them. So, the only was to reach out to him was normal text. Irrespective of developing a friendship, I needed to be in contact with him because he was my book dealer. He went to college in a different state and used to visit during the semester breaks and we used to meet. Because I always had some of his book and he the same. Our book exchange meeting would seem close to drug dealing cuz, we used to not talk much, just exchange books and go in different directions. It slowly took off from there, I got to texting him cuz he started using whatsapp. I slowly realised that we shared the same interest in books, TV series and music. Conversations with him were so interesting (still are). Talking to him, I realised that I am as weird as he is and I think thats why its going so well. We used to have a weird mental agreement of how many text per day we send each other. Initially it was 2 per day and then increased to 4. This went on for about 2 years. I still do not know why we maintained it that way. Our texts shifted to Youtube chats a feature most used by us. (Idk why youtube removed it, it was so convinient to share songs)Our relatioship was kinda on and off during these years because we definitely liked each other but did not know if we were in the right mindset to be in a relationship. I thought that I needed to finish college get a job and then pursue this and Suriya felt the same. However, destiny had to bring us together. Later is 2018, Suriya officially expressed his love. Our actual relationship started off weird. He was preparing for CAT exams and need time to focus so, he proposed that we do not keep texting until he completed. It felt so real and genuiene to me. So, we did not text each other about 4 months, we had a couple of calls inbetween. Nothing more. Our weird relationship continued with weird set rules. Talking once a week and many others like that. (Seems to me that 20 year old suriya and roopini had more self control in life than now ;P). 

Its just this trust I had have on him since day one. Even now, if we were to have no contact for a year, I know our relationship would remain the same. Along these years Suriya and I have grown individually yet together thats what has made our relationship so strong. 

Suriya is the perfect amalgamation of all the best characteristics you would want in a human being. He's compassionate, extremely funny, super smart, a great leader and has the purest soul. He's always there for people, he works so hard to help his peers and values everyone so much. Sometimes I wonder how can someone be so wholesome. There's so much I've learned from him over the years and there is so much I am still learning. He's made me a better human, and I am trying to live up to his level everyday.  

There's nothing in this world I would trade for him.