
title: Poor Economics
date: 2024-03-12
description: You are never really rich just because you have a job and an education.
authors: ["Roopini"]
tags:
  - thoughts
  - books 
Growing up in a low income household. 

“Poverty is not just a lack of money; it is not having the capability to realize one's full potential as a human being”
                                                  ~ Abhijit Banerjee

Poor Economics” is a book that holds a special place in my heart. It tells the story of millions from lower economic backgrounds, a narrative I deeply connect with, despite my family having moved out of poverty two generations ago. 

I am 26 and I am in a really good position in life right now, considering where I started. Getting paid 12 LPA currently. My parents and I took an International trip a few months back. But, you know what, this took so much effort. I barely look at what a struggle this was. Thinking that I am in a really good position and actually being in a good position (financially) according to the growing economy are completely different things. All my life I’ve had so  many limitations because of insufficient money. I was lucky/privileged enough to be educated in a really good school. But, that was all my parents could do. I could not attend those fancy tours my classmates used to go to, own fancy school bags, and lunch boxes. But, since I was in such an environment I considered myself as privileged as those other kids. I remember in 6th std, they had announced about a 3 day trip to a nearby hill station, I was so confident and gave my name for the tour only to come home and realize that my parents wouldn’t allow me because we could not afford it. There have been many other occasions like the book fair, signing up for scholastic books every year. They used to hand out these pamphlets with a list of books and their prices. I used to tick all the books that I wanted to read. I'd take it home and my parents would again not let me get any of those because we couldn’t afford it. 

Fast forward to college, I studied hard and got into a really good college. The same case pertained. I could not sign up for any of those club activities, any of the internships. In India, most science/research internships require you to pay some amount to get exposure. Again, I was at a disadvantage where I couldn’t get into one of those fancy research institutes to improve my capabilities because my family just couldn’t afford anything in addition to paying for my college fee. However, I signed up for those on campus research courses, workshops to ignite my curiosity. I grabbed at any opportunity that did not require me to pay money. I worked my way up, completed graduation and worked for a year to figure out finances for my Post graduation and successfully completed scoring the university rank. During my PG I took deep interest in academia and research and read a lot. In an attempt to elevate my career and life and also fuel my interest,  I wanted to pursue a PhD. I started off by looking at premium institutions in the USA, looking at the application fee, my heart sank. It was 50% of my parents salary. By this time I had learned that we had money just to cover the basic needs like, a house, meals 3 times a day and an education. And so, I ignored all this and continued by looking for opportunities in European countries because their applications did not require a fee. However, looking at the requirements I realised that just great scores in college, university rank and a couple of average research projects could not get me anywhere. I did not know about molecular techniques like DNA, RNA isolation, PCR, Protein extraction etc. Of Course I knew theoretical knowledge but not practical knowledge. In my continuous pursuit in parallel to pursuing my career as an embryologist, and help from my partner, In 2023 I decided to apply for a masters instead. I am in a good place financially so, I thought ok why not take a loan.  

Today, I went to enquire about overseas education loans. I’ve been accepted into NYU for my masters. I was explained by the professional from the bank about the process. Since I am an applicant I will need a co-applicant who can vouch for me. None of my financial growth would be considered for this. Both my parents are not taxpayers because their incomes did not ever earn so much in the first place. So, it turns out that my parents cannot be a co-applicant. When will this cycle of financial insufficiency end? Despite all this, I’ve always felt privileged but, I did have a difficult life and I am having a difficult life figuring out finances to better myself. But, I know that somehow I will come out of this. 

On that note I was thinking of people on the poverty line who can't afford education even if they could probably only afford education in the local language and not english. So many (rich) people have such strong convictions against homeless people, “they have 2 hands and legs, why do they have to beg, they can learn some skill” but, being capable of making a living with mere skill is easier said than done. That's something that people in the upper layer can never understand. Life is unfair. People with money need not be smart, need not be skilled yet their financial, professional and personal growth would sky rocket and they all grow to believe that they are smart and have struggled their way through. They do not understand the advantage they have in life. I’ve had a lot of my affluent relatives and cousins who push the same kind of agenda on me. But, the irony is that I’ve mained great scores all through school and college. I've attended colleges with better rankings than they have but I am still here. So, it only conveys to them that I’ve not worked “hard enough” ; they cannot see I have done 10 times better than them because somehow you don't make it, you’ve not worked hard. If you make it, you’ve worked hard. Who sees the million people out there who have been trying all their life? 
